# Simulating-the-Spread-of-Ebola-based-on-Cellular-Automaton-Mode
Ebola virus is an infectious disease that started from a probable zoonotic transmission, followed by human-tohuman spreading due to direct contact with each other.  In this project we selected SIR as our 2-D model.  S – Susceptible I – Infectives R – Recovered  The model was made to explain the Ebola Virus outbreak. In SIR model the transmission of Ebola Virus can only  occur through direct contact between susceptible individuals to the infectious individuals. A cellular automaton is basically a grid of cells. Each cell has a state and is controlled by pre-defined rules for  infections… PROJECT PLANNING The goal is to simulate the spread of the Ebola virus in a parallel computing environment using a cellular  automaton model. At first, we will define our specific SIR or SEIR model. We will define rules for the spread of  the virus and how these rules affect the different states the simulated cells could be in. Next, we will write  pseudo code and create flow charts for our defined model. This process should be finished by the reading  week, then we will start coding.  In and after the reading week, will develop one serial and one parallel C program, these will be compared by  their computational performance. Both programs will simulate cells in a pattern. Each cell will have a state.  Moreover, each cell is dependent on the states of their nearby cells. Figure 1: model of cells and their states1 After coding the programs, we will create flow-charts and write pseudo code for a separate program, which  should visualize the progress of the simulation over time. After finishing this program, we will test if there are  any bugs in the code and we will check, if the code is structured well. In the end, we will generate results of our  codes and findings. We created a detailed Gantt-chart to sum up the tasks and phases of the project. This chart was made with  Draw.io, a free online tool for drawing any kind of charts and models. 1 Figure 1: Huang, Chung-Yuan & Sun, Chuen-Tsai & Hsieh, Ji-lung & Lin, Holin. (2004). Simulating SARS: SmallWorld Epidemiological Modeling and Public Health Policy Assessments. Journal of Artificial Societies and Social  Simulation. 
